Technique used to reduce size of data is known as Data Compression. It is the technique used to represent data in smaller size than actual size of data by encoding it in less bits. Compression is basically technology used to represent data without reduction in quality but reduction in quantity of data. In order to store and transmit the data efficiently, compression technique came into picture. There are various techniques for data compression like lossy compression and lossless compression. This seminar proposes to analyze those compression algorithms and to study them comparatively. It also includes various compression on different types of data.  

The internet is huge network where communication is being done by flow of data. Now these days due to evolution in technology, a lot of amount of data is getting generated each day. Internet is getting used by billons of people and handling such increasing amount of data is a big thing. Also internet is not only concerned with data but also concerned with the speed. To fulfill these demands, the flow of data need to be fast. Speed of flow increase with reduction in size of data without reducing quality, where data compression comes into picture.
	      The approximate size of data all over the globe by 2020 is about 40+ zettabyte (ZB) where 1 zettabyte is 2^70 bytes. Storage, manipulation and flow of such amount of data over a huge network must be as efficient as possible, where compression help us to achieve this. Compression is a technique used to represent the data in smaller size than actual size by encoding it into smaller bits. In late 1940s data compression work began. Robert Fano and Claude Shannon found a systematic way to assign codewords, which was based on probabilities of block around 1949. In 1951, David Huffman came up with optimal method for the same. Various compression algorithms are based on different encoding techniques such as Run Length Encoding, Huffman encoding, etc.


Popular compression techniques such as 
LZ77 and Huffman Coding are examples of lossless 
compression techniques. On the other hand, lossy compression 
techniques remove the unnecessary bits, reducing the size of 
the file. The compressed file cannot be converted back to the 
original file as some part of the information is lost in the 
compression. The file recovered after decompression is an 
approximation of the original file, which is reconstructed on 
basis of the compression program’s understanding. Since a lot 
of unnecessary information is removed, compression ratio of 
lossy compression techniques is generally more than lossless 
compression techniques. Lossy techniques are widely used in image and video compression, where a group of pixels can be 
approximated into a single value using transform encoding or 
differential encoding. Compression techniques such as JPEG and MP3 are examples of lossy compression techniques.
In this work, we focus on comparing various widely used
modern lossless compression algorithms. The compression 
algorithms are compared with respect to their compression 
ratio and their compression and decompression speed